LAGOS STATE TENANCY LAW 2011 (No. 14 of 2011)

A Law to Regulate rights and obligations under tenancy agreements and their relationship between the landlord and the Tenant including the procedure for the recovery of premises and for connected purposes.

Section 1: Application of the Law
(1) This Law shall apply to all premises within Lagos State, including business and residential premises unless otherwise specified.
(2) This Law shall not apply to:
(a) residential premises owned or operated by an educational institution for its staff and students;
(b) residential premises provided for emergency shelter;
(c) residential premises in a care or hospice facility; in a public or private hospital or a mental health facility; and
(d) premises made available in the course of providing rehabilitative or therapeutic treatment.
(3) The following areas: (i) Apapa; (ii) Ikeja GRA; (iii) Ikoyi; and (iv) Victoria Island are exempted from the application of this Law; however, the Governor may from time to time by Order published in the State Official Gazette exempt the application of this Law to any other Area or premises in the State.

Section 4: Advance Rent
(1) It shall be unlawful for a landlord or his agent to demand or receive from a new or prospective tenant, rent in excess of one (1) year in respect of any premises.
(2) It shall be unlawful for a new or prospective tenant to offer or pay rent in excess of one (1) year in respect of any premises.
(3) It shall be unlawful for an existing tenant to offer or pay or for a landlord to receive or demand rent in excess of six (6) months in respect of any premises.
(4) Any person who contravenes the provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N100,000.00 (One Hundred Thousand Naira) or to three (3) months imprisonment.

Section 5: Rent Payment Receipt
(1) As from the commencement of this Law, a landlord shall issue a receipt for payment of rent to the tenant.
(2) The receipt shall state:
(a) the date on which rent was received;
(b) names and addresses of the landlord and the tenant;
(c) description and location of the premises in respect of which the rent is paid;
(d) the amount of rent paid; and
(e) the period to which the payment relates.
(3) Any landlord who fails to issue a rent receipt shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N100,000.00.

Section 7: Obligations of the Tenant
Subject to any provision to the contrary in a tenancy agreement, the tenant shall:
1. Pay the rent at the times and in the manner stated.
2. Pay all water, electricity, and security bills.
3. Keep the premises in good and tenantable repair.
4. Not make any alterations or additions to the premises without the written consent of the landlord.
5. Permit the landlord and his agents during the tenancy at all reasonable hours in the daytime after previous notice, to enter the premises to view the condition thereof.

Section 8: Obligations of the Landlord
Subject to any provision to the contrary in a tenancy agreement, the landlord shall:
1. Not disturb the tenant’s quiet and peaceable enjoyment of the premises.
2. Pay all rates and charges as stipulated by law.
3. Keep the premises insured against loss or damage.
4. Effect repairs and maintain the external and common parts of the premises.

Section 13: Length of Notice
Where there is no stipulation as to the notice to be given by either party to determine the tenancy, the following periods of notice shall apply:
(a) a week’s notice for a weekly tenancy;
(b) a month’s notice for a monthly tenancy;
(c) three months’ notice for a quarterly tenancy;
(d) three months’ notice for a half-yearly tenancy; and
(e) six months’ notice for a yearly tenancy.

Section 44: Offences and Penalties
(1) Any person who:
(a) attempts to or forcibly ejects a tenant;
(b) molests a tenant by action or words;
(c) willfully damages any premises with a view to ejecting a tenant;
(d) removes the roof, window, door or any part of the premises;
(e) does any act to make the premises uninhabitable;
is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of N250,000.00 or six (6) months imprisonment.
